In a couple of sentences, how would you describe the command line in plain English? Can you think of an analogy for it?

A Command line is used to give commands to your computer without using the mouse.

Did you stick to the timebox guidelines? If not, what change would you make next time?

Not really. But I probably spent more time on each segment than the time box told me. I don't really want to focus on the time box too much but it is nice to see how long I should spend on something. 

Name 5 commands you used and what they do. 

ls: lists all the files 
cd: change directory 
Cd..: takes you to the file up a level. 
Command k: clears your terminal 
Mkdir: make directory 

Did you learn anything unexpected? 

I didn't expect to understand what the terminal really was so quickly. 

Whats the difference between git and GitHub?

Git is a distributed source control repository. It's a version control system. 

GitHub is a webservice that uses Git. 

Can you think of an analogy to describe them?

Git is the system and GitHub is a website that uses the system. 

Do you think you would still remember the difference a week from now if you didn't revisit the material?

Yes.

Did you stick to the timebox suggestions? If not, why not?

Loosely. 

What is a GitHub work flow?

Working and collaborating with others. Having a work directory, staging information then putting it in a repository. Checking others work before you merge. Going back to a previous save if you change your mind on the most recent file. 

What did you notice about your own learning? What did you do when you were confused or blocked?

I need to read things over and over again for it to make sense in my brain. Sometimes I will be reading something and not even realise that I am just looking at the words and not taking the information in. When I am confused I'll write the important information down in my notebook and have my 10th instant coffee and read it over and over. If I'm still confused I'll ask Jossie. 

Is there anything you'd do differently if you were to repeat the learning exploration again?

Take more breaks. 

How would you describe stage and commit to your non-tech-savvy friend?

It's basically a word for saving something In the git world. 

What is Master?

A master is the master branch. Everything that is final and perfect gets saved onto it. 

Why create a Branch?

If you want to make changes, or experiment with something you create a branch. This means you can make all the changes you want without actually effecting the master branch. When you have finished you can create a pull request and have it reviewed by team members. Then it can be merged to the master branch if accepted. 

Do the concepts introduced feel intuitive or difficult to understand?

It's easy to understand but the coding is hard to remember because everyone in the videos does it slightly differently. 